
English linguistics: First-Year TPs
The First-Year TPs are taught by Ms Puskas Mon. 8-10 and Mon. 10-12 Phil 006A
by Ms Forel Mon. 8-10 and Wed. 18-20 Phil 017 
and by Ms Ihsane Mon. 10-12 Phil 017

The aim of the first year TPs (travaux pratiques) in linguistics is to make 
students familiar with the field of linguistics. Students will be introduced
to the main sub-domains of linguistics:

Semantics: the study of meaning,

Morphology: the study of word formation,

Phonology: the study of sounds,

Syntax: the study of sentence structure.

Throughout the first year we will illustrate how linguistics research is done, 
what kind of arguments are used, what kind of methodology is adopted, what 
kind of results have already been achieved and what kind of problems remain.

Our main objective is that students should acquire, on the one hand, a 
certain content, their knowledge about linguistics, and also, more importantly,
a certain number of skills in the field of linguistics. After the first year
program, students will not only know about linguistics, but they should also 
know how to do linguistics, i.e. how to study certain aspects of English. 

The approach in the first year TPs - as indeed in the whole linguistics 
programme - is cumulative: students acquire the contents and skills step-by-step, 
each step being defined as a module which specifies one objective in the 
acquisition of the relevant skills, associated with a set of contents.

Special attention will be paid to developing the ability to write a coherent 
essay on a linguistic problem, in preparation of, among other things, the 
demi-licence written examination and written work in general.

Objectives and contents

1. Aims and Methods of linguistics:

Objective : We develop the conception of linguistics as a descriptive science 
(as opposed to a set of prescriptive rules) and we show how a formal description 
makes explicit the speaker's intuitions about his/her language.

Contents: Semantics: analysis and classification of features

Morphology: morphological analysis of neologisms, back-formations...

Phonology: apparition of allophones in American vs. British English

Syntax: error analysis vs. prescriptive rules

2. Descriptive Tools:

Objective: This module concentrates on the acquisition and use of the 
descriptive tools of linguistics.

Contents: Semantics: semantic features, antonymy, synonymy, polysemy

Morphology: definition of morpheme, derivation vs. inflection

Phonology: phonetic signs, definition of phoneme, distinctive

features, syllable

Syntax: constituents, tree diagrams, inflection

3. Analysis of data

Objective: Descriptive tools acquired are put to use in the analysis of English

Contents: Semantics: ambiguity, paraphrase, presupposition, deixis

Morphology: allomorphy, suppletion, ablaut, compounding

Phonology: assimilation, connected speech, stress

Syntax: grammatical functions, word classes

4. Problem solving:

Objective: We solve a number of linguistic problems by developing a hypothesis 
on the basis of the empirical data and then testing it against a corpus of data.

Contents: Semantics: semantics vs. pragmatics, speech acts, deixis vs. context

Morphology: problems with compound, cranberry morphemes, productivity

Phonology: allophones, intonation, stress placement, syllable formation

Syntax: layering, transformations, the structure of the clause (IP/CP), 
functional category/lexical categoryEvaluation procedures

In the program each objective is represented by one teaching module. 
When we have finished a particular module, the acquired skills are tested 
by means of a number of exercises representing each of the domains studied.
For the last test (concerning objective 4) students write an essay combining
several sub-domains. 

 